During the 1970s, the preaching work was not recognized in Rwanda.
When my family and I received a letter of invitation to go serve there,
we were living a good life.
We had some concerns, but praying to Jehovah
and asking him for direction helped us.
I discussed it with my wife and we were both positive about it.
We made a request for legal recognition in 1982,
but instead, myself and two other brothers were thrown into prison.
One day, on a Sunday, the Archbishop came to the prison and he announced,
the wear of those Jehovah's Witnesses.
As a result of that, he raised the curiosity of his listeners.
The prisoners wanted some explanations from us because they could not understand what he meant.
Many began to join our meetings.
The Archbishop was not happy.
He grew even angrier and in order to stop our activities,
he told his close followers to beat us up when we attended the following meeting.
Two young prisoners approached us and they said,
today, they planned to beat you up.
When our meeting time came, we didn't show up.
Another religious group came and took our place at night,
so they were the ones who got beaten up.
From that time on, no one disturbed us any longer.
We continued preaching and attending meetings peacefully.
After spending two years in prison, we were freed.
Outside of prison, the brothers were not free to preach.
Many more brothers and sisters kept being arrested and imprisoned.
Later, I was put in prison again and the imprisoned brothers rejoiced over my presence,
saying, we now have our circuit overseer visiting us.
They were very happy.
We started working together in harmony and preaching.
Each one was assigned a territory.
Some were discouraged,
but I tried to strengthen and encourage them to hold on to Jehovah.
Then, brothers from all over the world started to write to the head of state.
Letters were coming in huge quantities.
Those letters had a good impact,
because finally, one day, an announcement was made on the radio by the president himself,
saying that he pardoned Jehovah's Witnesses.
The people on the street started shouting at us.
Jehovah has won.
He has won.
The work of Jehovah's Witnesses was legally recognized in 1992.
Sadly, in 1994, during the time of genocide,
some of our brothers died and others faced serious challenges.
Some fled to Goma as refugees.
I received the assignment to oversee the relief funds that were coming from Kinshasa.
One day, I had just collected the relief money for our refugee brothers,
and I was stopped by two policemen.
They possibly thought that they could get that money,
so they asked me to go with them to their superior.
As we were walking, I remembered a prayer that our daughter Debra said during the genocide.
While the whole family was praying silently,
she prayed out loud, pouring her heart out to Jehovah.
Thanks to that, they refrained from killing us.
This moved me to pray in my heart, too.
As soon as I said, Amen.
The two policemen turned right and went to meet their colleague.
I also saw in front of me a brother holding a black suitcase,
looking exactly like the one I had with the money.
I handed him mine full of money, and he gave me his with literature inside.
Then, without delay, the policemen said, let's go now.
Let's go. We walked all the way to the chief of police, but they found nothing.
They were holding their chins in their hands, saying,
this is a miracle. How could the money we saw turn into books?
In all the trials I've encountered, I really saw Jehovah's powerful hand.
As a house built on a rock that is struck by storms,
hit by anything but remains firm.
We too met with many trying challenges.
But Jehovah continued to make us firm just like a house built on a rock.
A scripture founded Isaiah 54 verse 17 explains that in reality.
All those fighting against us, no matter who they are,
will never succeed. Up until this moment,
although my physical strength is gradually fading,
I feel that the power to serve Jehovah is growing so much.
In fact, I feel more powerful than ever.
My determination is that, no matter the situation,
I will continue to serve Jehovah.